This weekend I participated in a Facebook Hackathon here at University of
Waterloo. If you don't know what a Hackathon is, it is basically a marathon
to code and complete a project, on any topic you chose, in 24 hours.

This was overall a great experience, even though my project didn't win anything,
I still learnt some interesting things about how projects are judged and how to
set up a good project. So here are some of my thoughts after the competition.

###1. Real life Application

Does not matter. period.

Yes, they will tell you to come up with something that YOU personally would use,
but that's just one small part of it. It just means work on something that
you're interested in, it doesn't have to have a real world purpose. In fact,
it could be down right stupid. Just make it simple and functional.

###2. Visual Design

Coders take notice: Bring a friend that is good at front end, it'll go a long
way. You may be surprised by how much a good looking hack can go. People will be
instantly wowed by it even if it's falling apart in the back. Designers make us
better, an irreplaceable half =)

###3. Keep it simple

Aim low. Better working than not. Make something that you know works first, and
then build on top of it. Sure it's easy to come up with a grand plan that you
feel it's going to win you the competition, but most of the time it might not be
realistic in the given time restraint. So, come up with a good idea, break it
apart, extract the core functionality, make that happen first.

###4. Preparations

Yes, you should prepare for it. Even though technically you're suppose to come
up with a hack on the spot, but that doesn't mean you should go in clueless. You
should know what the technical aspects of the hack are so you don't have to be
learning and coding at the same time.

###5. Good music

Oh man this is so important, make sure you can block out the rest of the world
and bring you to a good place. With a bit of pumping music and sick beats I was
in the zone. 24 hours will seem like a jiff. In fact, this seems like a perfect
way to spend large amounts of time quickly, such as on a trans-continental
plane..

###6 Sleep

Yes it's suppose to be a 24hour "all day n' night" hackathon, but c'mon you need
SOME sleep. I had class right before the marathon so by the end of the
competition I was awake for about 30 hours. Red Bull isn't sleep, even 30min of
power nap beats a can of that stuff.


Well that's it, it was loads of fun and a great experience. I'm definitely down
for the same next year, but next time around I will be prepared and hopefully
good result will come! =)


*You can check out the result on my [github page](https://github.com/pxue/hackathon) 
