Workflow is an important aspect of development for any programmer. It varies
widely on individual styles and the role they fill at their workplace. It's
astonishing how many programmers are suffering because they haven't heard or be
bothered to invest in developing a workflow process that will save their souls
in the long and dreaded process of develop-deloyments. It's simple, it's quick
and it's beneficial for all mankind.

This by far is not a new topic; any programmer that have frustrated over their
development process has wrote at least one blog post about how one day they
finally had enough and took the liberty to finally set up something that will 
just work, and they lived happily ever after.

Of course, it isn't a fairy tale, we want it to be, but it just isn't. But you
can rest assure that there are people out there are trying to make this as close
to a Disney happy ending for us all as they can.

![disney-happy](/images/disney_happy_ending.png)

In comes amazing utilities such as [gitflow](https://github.com/nvie/gitflow),
while kicking ass and saving babies, it's also making us dinner and taking out
the trash even without us asking it to. There is no reason in the Universe
(unless you are a misanthrope) that one should not love gitflow, just none.

Now you may ask, why should I use git, why should I conform to the masses and
flow with the trend, I am happy with the status quo and some-other-vcs does
everything for me already.

Well you're just wrong. WRONG I SAY.

Okay you might not be, but there are many reasons why git has developed to
a such trusted and widely used system as it has today, there are many blog posts
out there on the intertubes that I shall spare you the lecture here, but I'll
just leave some stuff [here](http://whygitisbetterthanx.com/),
[here](http://looble.org/git-vs-svn-which-is-better/) and
[here](https://git.wiki.kernel.org/articles/g/i/t/GitSvnComparison_cb82.html).

Of course, I'm not trying to force anyone to use Git over Mercurial (which
I adore) or SVN etc. but it's just a simple change that can make your life 10x
easier.

The tool is just the first step in tweaking and improving a workflow. It is the
backbone supporting how everything else can be built up and maintainted upon.
The logical next step is how we can use the ability to branch and merge easily
apply it to a model, then a real life use case.

*this is one of several posts on workflow. stay tuned for part 2: git branching
model, part 3: node.js workflow (Title and topic subjected to change).*
